#summary Introduction and tutorial. (This page is still under construction.)

= Introduction =

You can find some demo at:

http://youtu.be/7xNeUbsScUc

= Install =

Download and extract this plug-in, copy "Plugin" folder under your Notepad++ install position.

= How to use =

  * TAB-trigger: simply key-in the "tag" of a snippet, then hit TAB key.
  * Visit placeholder marks: "ALT+," and "ALT+."
  * Show the input dialog: "ALT+Enter".

= How to edit snippet files =

The snippet files are stored in XML format, one XML file for one language. To create a snippet file for a language, you need to create a XML file with name _"language name.xml"_ under _"Notepad++/plugin/config/CodeExpress"_. Supported language names are

|| txt      || php     || c        || cpp      || cs     ||
|| objc     || java    || rc       || html     || xml    ||
|| makefile || pascal  || batch    || ini      || nfo    ||
|| user     || asp     || sql      || vb       || js     ||
|| css      || perl    || python   || lua      || tex    ||
|| fortran  || bash    || flash    || nsis     || tcl    ||
|| lisp     || scheme  || asm      || diff     || props  ||
|| ps       || ruby    || smalltalk|| vhdl     || kix    ||
|| au3      || caml    || ada      || verilog  || matlab ||
|| haskell  || inno    || search   || cmake    || yaml   ||
|| external || global  ||

There is no special editor for snippet files by now. Notepad++ itself is a good XML editor, using collapse level 2 (shortcut ALT+2) will give you a clean view.

== File format ==

Basic layout of a snippet file is like:

<code language="xml"><?xml version="1.0"?>
<CodeExpress>

<snippet tag="gpl">...</snippet>

<snippet tag="lorem">...</snippet>

...

</CodeExpress></code>


Individual snippet looks like:

<code language="xml"><snippet tag="demo">

<var name="foo"> `<![CDATA[  foo=@{_} ]]>` </var>

<var name="bar" optional="1"></var>

<code>

`<![CDATA[`This is just a demo.
@{foo}
@{bar}
`]]>`

</code>

</snippet></code>

  * A snippet must have a "tag" attribute.
  * A snippet can have none or some variables, currently five at most.
  * A vaiable must have a "name" attribute, and can have an optional "optional" attribute.
    * optional="1" indicate that if no value is given, this variable will not apear in the final code.
  * Code template should be put inside `<code>`...`</code>` tag with CDATA section markup.
  * You can add hot spots inside the code template:
    * Any pattern matches "`@{[A-Za-z0-9]*}`" will be treated as a hot spot, which can be visited using "ALT+," and "ALT+."
    * @{} will be erased automatically when it is selected by "ALT+," or "ALT+."
    * If the text inside @{...} matches a variable name, it also serves as a placeholder of the variable.
    * @{SEL} is reserved, means insert selected text here. If no text is selected before triggering this snippet, @{SEL} will be replaced by @{}.

= Known Problems =

    